Caption: so good morning everyone welcome to DVD
Caption: per and it's certainly nice to visit
Caption: this part of the country I find get over
Caption: here a few times a year but the
Caption: conference like this is is really good
Caption: today we're going to talk about
Caption: Raspberry Pi and Internet of Things but
Caption: here's my problem so far we all enjoyed
Caption: the keynote and how am I supposed to
Caption: follow a dynamic presentation like that
Caption: so it's going to go downhill from here
Caption: going to happen what we do first is this
Caption: new technology the sponsors for the
Caption: event in particular the planning partner
Caption: so Bank West and Microsoft and guru I
Caption: have a check make sure I saying them
Caption: properly earlier because without those
Caption: guys events like this can't happen but
Caption: more importantly thank you to you guys
Caption: because there's no point having great
Caption: sponsors if people don't turn up so and
Caption: you guys need a big round of applause as
Caption: well sponsor is one thing the most
Caption: important time of the day is the after
Caption: party and them Express are proud to be
Caption: supporting that afterparty
Caption: and let me show how many people can get
Caption: to it it's going to be a lot of fun
Caption: and we're going to give away so my talk
Caption: today doesn't include anything about
Caption: Derek's press but if anybody has any
Caption: questions or be around all day and more
Caption: than have to answer things just not for
Caption: the next 40 minutes and I think that
Caption: this was typical developer part of my
Caption: quickly pro to myself I'm Russia I've
Caption: been a Technical Evangelist for
Caption: DevExpress for four years now and before
Caption: that I ran and still owns a software
Caption: company in Brisbane I've been a
Caption: developer for over 26 years which makes
Caption: me feel really really old I'm a
Caption: Microsoft Azure MVP as you learn Asia
Caption: which ever we want to say I've been that
Caption: now but she is and that's pretty
Caption: exciting anybody that wants information
Caption: on the MVP program rule number one is
Caption: violent wild rice paid for emails I'm
Caption: also a trainer with winter right now on
Caption: different technologies in particular
Caption: mobile things like iOS so in my
Caption: development career I've tried to focus a
Caption: lot on mobile development sweet humanize
Caption: the whole thing just it's one thing for
Caption: guys to stand up here
Caption: talk about certain technologies of
Caption: America 18 years on 505 I'm also the
Caption: president of a local brought them so you
Caption: know life can be quite busy when you're
Caption: traveling and fitting all those things
Caption: in thankfully almost children are adults
Caption: which again makes me feel really old
Caption: today's agenda we're going to have a
Caption: quick look at what IOT actually means
Caption: and then start talking about things like
Caption: the raspberry pie and how can you use
Caption: the diet II will talk about some
Caption: practical projects and then how you can
Caption: actually get started and then I've got
Caption: some links which are useful resources
Caption: and then we can open up questions as
Caption: long as you promise to be nice when the
Caption: actual talk was accepted it's suddenly
Caption: thinking what's the goal for a roomful
Caption: of people that have come in given up
Caption: their Saturday what's to take away my
Caption: number one goal is to leave you with a
Caption: pink interest that you will actually
Caption: want to go away and start looking at IOT
Caption: and in particular raspberry pi I need to
Caption: have the devices that connect to IOT for
Caption: me it was one thing to go and buy around
Caption: revival my first one in the UK probably
Caption: five years ago now and it was a Saturday
Caption: shop I said everybody look I've been
Caption: around the pike if the three years I
Caption: didn't boot it this is like on the
Caption: Raspberry Pi so it's one of those things
Caption: quite awful we want to get we want to
Caption: look at technologies we want to start
Caption: playing with things but sometimes you
Caption: just buy it for the old shell target
Caption: trip so I want to change you can bug
Caption: that so the philosophy land change that
Caption: today and the second part of my goal was
Caption: because of the coolness of the
Caption: technology somebody is going to come up
Caption: with a million-dollar idea
Caption: and retirement I take donations if that
Caption: happens okay big point about any of
Caption: those things work so what do you need to
Caption: know the things and I thought maybe this
Caption: way to talk about what it is is what
Caption: it's not the IOT is not a ubiquitous or
Caption: pervasive computing method it's not a
Caption: protocol
Caption: IOT is not a communication technology or
Caption: an embedded device of rivers of
Caption: as per say and it's not the applications
Caption: bisexual definition the Internet of
Caption: Things is a global network
Caption: infrastructure linking physical and
Caption: virtual objects using cloud computing
Caption: data capture and network communications
Caption: it allows devices to communicate with
Caption: each other access information on the
Caption: Internet strawed store and retrieve data
Caption: and then interact with users creating a
Caption: smarter evasive and always connected
Caption: infrastructure now when we talk about
Caption: accessing information on the network
Caption: we're not just talking about physical
Caption: devices working with relays buttons
Caption: those sorts of things
Caption: it can also be information like tweets
Caption: so having an IOT of the structure you
Caption: can have you know the lights turn on
Caption: because suddenly mention something in a
Caption: tweet so you get a big picture of these
Caption: things or you can do small projects but
Caption: the point is there's so many moving
Caption: parts to I achieve he mentioned cloud
Caption: computing now obviously as a Microsoft
Caption: Azure MVP I'm going to mention Asia it
Caption: makes the points that way for those that
Caption: quick show of hands who's playground
Caption: imagine AWS pretty pretty balanced I'm a
Caption: big fan if you haven't already got an
Caption: account but you can get a free one and a
Caption: lot of people didn't think that cloud
Caption: computing has to cost a lot of money my
Caption: system gets your pages
Caption: I couldn't risk you guys killing a
Caption: little backwards oh I'm working on iron
Caption: shared advice somewhere anything can
Caption: happen
Caption: okay so once you sign up as you create
Caption: your account it's really simple to avoid
Caption: a IOT hub and fact you get started you
Caption: click on that beautiful but there's a
Caption: simple thing quietiy hub and you can
Caption: deploy them and that start setting up
Caption: your in points now we are going to go
Caption: into too much technical depth here time
Caption: is too short but one of the local MVP is
Caption: Martin Abbott wrote a really good
Caption: article about setting up as random IOT
Caption: so I've got links for these things later
Caption: on as well but he's at his blog posts
Caption: Abbott thought as your web sites dotnet
Caption: he details a talk that he did in a local
Caption: computer group how to deploy what's
Caption: involved we need to do set up your
Caption: device we're going to cover some of this
Caption: in today's session and then he set up a
Caption: sprinkler system connected to NASA etc
Caption: so there's certainly a lot of
Caption: information and ways that you can start
Caption: doing that inside a Joe so what about
Caption: the Raspberry Pi well over the years
Caption: those are big hands head start with this
Caption: little company with this organization
Caption: invented a small powered cheap piecing
Caption: again what we'll do is test start with
Caption: what the Raspberry Pi is not and it's
Caption: not Arduino and some people so say well
Caption: the to the same thing you've got this
Caption: little oddly no device little board
Caption: you've got a Raspberry Pi what's the
Caption: difference
Caption: I'm hoping this is Fred this is my robot
Caption: unfortunately Fred had a bit of an
Caption: accident recently he fell off the desk
Caption: and so his is very delicate right now
Caption: fred is built on an Arduino board okay
Caption: so under at the bottom here we've got an
Caption: Arduino board controlling a series of
Caption: Knossos and Fred's normal job and blue
Caption: to head yet is to control or to tell me
Caption: what's happening in my security system
Caption: so friendships on my desk
Caption: anything happens at home with my home
Caption: automation which is connected with IOT
Caption: etc people actually tell me he moved his
Caption: head and we're going to try to say
Caption: Elliott he almost didn't make it all the
Caption: way over here but make sure that
Caption: frequent talk so and I just simply want
Caption: to use it as a quick example of the use
Caption: of Y as we know and then I'm going to
Caption: explain some of what happens with the
Caption: other winner boards he has a nervous tic
Caption: right now okay so this is some of the
Caption: software that is created for teaching
Caption: children robotics and I just want to run
Caption: out one particular program and this is
Caption: just straight USB connection serial
Caption: controlling that are doing a device as I
Caption: move the mouse around there we go
Caption: this is usually a head pulled up right
Caption: now let sounds you're going to talk
Caption: cable yet okay good what one thing that
Caption: did break was a little speaker so there
Caption: we go rocket head and but it is a great
Caption: example of what to be achieved with the
Caption: other you know microprocessor okay there
Caption: we go
Caption: so what's the difference between the
Caption: Arduino or let's press I can talk more
Caption: about the Arduino and explain what it is
Caption: the opening that is an open source
Caption: prototyping platform based on an
Caption: easy-to-use hardware software interviews
Caption: being the fact that it's one simple
Caption: board with some can put out the pins now
Caption: there's more variable reading puts
Caption: whether it be from sensors fingers on
Caption: buttons everything including because
Caption: we're going to dive do things like
Caption: Twitter messages or other incoming
Caption: courses and then once it takes an input
Caption: it can actually do something with it
Caption: being the output so you can control the
Caption: motors the servos lights other things
Caption: with the Arduino it's based on their own
Caption: programming language and they've got
Caption: their own idea cetera really cheap to
Caption: get into and cool but at the end of the
Caption: day there's Fred with a nose my crater
Caption: nose was too at the end of the day how
Caption: does that differ to the pie and why do I
Caption: prefer it whether the pie so the micro
Caption: is whether being a micro controller is a
Caption: simple computer you can only run one
Caption: program at one time over and over and
Caption: over it's very easy to use simple to
Caption: setup and run play words whereas the pie
Caption: is a general-purpose computer usually
Caption: with a Linux operating system
Caption: although that's now changing and it's
Caption: capable of running multiple programs
Caption: that will making it more complicated or
Caption: complex based in that winner so enter
Caption: the pipe and this one here is actually
Caption: the pi3 that we're going to be giving
Caption: away in the starter kit today but just
Caption: take your top off we can see that it is
Caption: a credit card sized machine I'm going to
Caption: break down the anatomy shortly on the
Caption: slide as well but it's a simple little
Caption: device this is an official PI case wraps
Caption: it up nicely and being a low powered it
Caption: means that you can run it really easily
Caption: with other things doesn't have to plug
Caption: into the mains all the time but what's
Caption: really interesting about it are all the
Caption: different slots and devices it's capable
Caption: of some quite amazing things it runs a
Caption: version of Linux so this here is
Caption: actually a Raspberry Pi
Caption: is the cake itself is designed by a
Caption: British company called pipe up and they
Caption: you want it to give you a way of working
Caption: with a pie because my spice did on the
Caption: shelf you've got to hook up a power
Caption: supply you've got a bun HDMI cable
Caption: display etc thinking about with the idea
Caption: that you know what
Caption: how much more use can you get if it's
Caption: self-contained now we've got the
Caption: Raspberry Pi sitting here we've got the
Caption: battery behind keyboard mouse this is
Caption: running raspberry n' which is the
Caption: preferred default operating system port
Caption: and I've also got as well as the
Caption: controller something called the part of
Caption: expansion board which allows me to play
Caption: around with electronics and very much in
Caption: the same way you can do with the arduino
Caption: one point tonight do not take pi top and
Caption: the bag of electronics on an airplane
Caption: and firing like the presentation it
Caption: doesn't go down very well
Caption: people start freaking out when you're
Caption: putting cables and LEDs and doing this
Caption: on a plane okay okay
Caption: learn that lesson the hard way
Caption: thankfully was domestic not
Caption: international flight otherwise that
Caption: might not be here anyway
Caption: what's really cool when this particular
Caption: setup that I like the as well as
Caption: obviously affordable I can pull the SD
Caption: card out and put another operating
Caption: system in there if I the one that's on
Caption: here is running three operating systems
Caption: so one of the cool things with for every
Caption: PI I can use it as a desktop computer
Caption: with processing spreadsheets browser etc
Caption: or if you use it as a media center and
Caption: one of the dishes I've got on the card
Caption: allows me to have a non-smoking this set
Caption: up but you imagine just a little box a
Caption: really silent media center brain what I
Caption: want so lots of different uses and we'll
Caption: talk about some more of that shortly
Caption: we'll come back to this device because
Caption: we're set up to do some programming as
Caption: well at the same time the PI can also be
Caption: used well first of all when the
Caption: Raspberry Pi foundation started they set
Caption: up with a goal was actually designed so
Caption: that they could see children all over
Caption: the world
Caption: program on a device that was cheap so
Caption: therefore affordable apparently there is
Caption: a will shortage of programmers of a
Caption: designing purpose you have lots of
Caption: people here but that new generation of
Caption: children coming through there's lots of
Caption: programs being written and programmed in
Caption: teaching not software to educate
Caption: children on on the joys of software
Caption: development when everybody here does it
Caption: for a passion you don't do it just
Caption: because you need to get paid right at
Caption: the end of the day we're a special Bunch
Caption: we take take an idea of nothing and
Caption: create something from it so
Caption: interestingly watching the keynote and I
Caption: was in real estate back in 2002 I was
Caption: doing software development in a building
Caption: company and I had to came up with two
Caption: concepts that we wanted to do inside
Caption: their company
Caption: one was holographic display of brand-new
Caption: houses on flat pieces of land so people
Caption: could see what their new houses in look
Caption: like and the second was an automated
Caption: replaying machine at the time I was told
Caption: by my partners don't be stupid to never
Caption: happen hololens and other technologies
Caption: means that people do now and in front of
Caption: their newly purchased piece of land and
Caption: have a look at what house design is
Caption: going to be like that we're talking ten
Caption: plus years and recently I learned there
Caption: to come here that you released an
Caption: automatic brick laying machine so either
Caption: of those I managed to patent to the
Caption: service for here the anatomy of a PI
Caption: runs on a brooklyn quad-core cpu this is
Caption: the current model of pi 3 oil B you can
Caption: see that's got onboard bluetooth onboard
Caption: Wi-Fi the micro SD card slot is where
Caption: the operating system and all sorts runs
Caption: from it's going to display for one of my
Caption: setups actually has a 7 inch touchscreen
Caption: display which is great for in-car audio
Caption: or other adaptive things and mounted on
Caption: a wall the micro USB the full citation e
Caption: paint the mi video output it's got a
Caption: camera port now in term this fit is done
Caption: by the way if you want to set up a
Caption: Raspberry Pi and have it
Caption: it's a little battery-operated projector
Caption: with keyboard maps and kind of like this
Caption: now but this is a Raspberry Pi 3 that
Caption: this little thing controls now what is
Caption: boosted this one's running Windows 10
Caption: IOT core ok once it's actually boots it
Caption: I can now control it from any of my
Caption: other devices but this one's got an 8
Caption: megapixel camera in it is using a
Caption: package called a PI blocks which
Caption: acceptable Lego style box is and this is
Caption: part of my security setup so consider
Caption: Michelle low-power and take photos what
Caption: I want mounted in the office etc so
Caption: we're talking devices that cost $50 $20
Caption: for a camera and you've got a fully
Caption: fledged computer with a lot of
Caption: capability we've also got four USB ports
Caption: the Ethernet port and the extended you
Caption: go Bridge for controlling other devices
Caption: so what about operating systems well
Caption: first of all most people working with it
Caption: there's riparian and one of those exam
Caption: researchers like 28 plus versions of
Caption: Linux available for the part one company
Caption: released recently a nap rate system
Caption: version of the OS so they're basically
Caption: figure indicating how the stack of
Caption: drives low power or otherwise whatever
Caption: you've got a network storage solution
Caption: that is super cheap and you can be set
Caption: up in raid so again whether it be
Caption: something like this perfect um project
Caption: imagine that with a media center high to
Caption: running media center high running is a
Caption: nice rate server and you've got things
Caption: that previously were quite expensive I'm
Caption: running Windows 10 IOT core on this one
Caption: and that's a lot of fun
Caption: and we don't have a look at some
Caption: different projects lab I was reading
Caption: recently as well where Google are
Caption: talking about releasing a version of
Caption: Android dedicated to PI which is you
Caption: know what exciting there are some hacks
Caption: you can do now and actually get Android
Caption: running on it but we're talking about a
Caption: dedicated version
Caption: Landru it so that will open things up
Caption: interesting as well not sure that Apple
Caption: want to do that way because I mentioned
Caption: I think they've got a super expensive
Caption: one called an Apple TV right so what
Caption: about real world projects one of the
Caption: first thing is that pie owners tend to
Caption: try and play with the spaceship they've
Caption: got a bit of handyman work and human is
Caption: a smart Merritt and such an interesting
Caption: concept you buy a couple pieces of
Caption: mirror usually the acrylic one so you
Caption: can shape it better pros loves you buy a
Caption: cheap one of them and you mount the
Caption: mirror on top of the monitor and you
Caption: mount the Raspberry Pi onto that hook it
Caption: up it's got Wi-Fi anyway and you've got
Caption: a smart Bureau so those times where
Caption: we're seeing those movies and the guys
Caption: looking you know having a shave on a
Caption: morning where the ladies are getting
Caption: ready and you can actually be looking at
Caption: your Twitter feed look at your emails
Caption: you can do other things certain
Caption: companies have gone further and put
Caption: camera interaction with it so that they
Caption: can get feedback and they can talk the
Caption: UI in that way or simply now that that
Caption: didn't expert in thing to the next page
Caption: to other things so there's so many
Caption: different options there another
Caption: gentleman in island came up with the
Caption: idea of building a camera rig that was
Caption: the Raspberry Pi controlling the runners
Caption: and also the caption he was doing a
Caption: delayed capture shots so that was
Caption: another way of doing it lots of
Caption: different ideas in fact smart Maris
Caption: media senses the nap service just
Caption: ascended server sprinkler control system
Caption: home automation the only thing that
Caption: limits what you can do with a PI is
Caption: going to be your thinking so then how'd
Caption: you actually get started with develop
Caption: into a fire you can think about what
Caption: operating system you want what you
Caption: actually want to achieve with it
Caption: if you talk about Windows 10 IOT core
Caption: once you visit device
Caption: it's a device you can control it but
Caption: it's not the same as running Linux
Caption: science so it's not windows came that
Caption: you can run software do things it's just
Caption: the core libraries where the browser
Caption: interfaces we saw we're going to do is
Caption: step you through what's actually
Caption: involved in building a Windows 10 high
Caption: and then how you can connect to it and
Caption: do other cool things hopefully the
Caption: resolution is okay so there's a
Caption: application called the IOT dashboard if
Caption: you've actually got any devices running
Caption: in network you can administer them
Caption: directly through there's now a couple of
Caption: different downloadable products or
Caption: looking at your devices this one is one
Caption: of the lakes ponds from Microsoft is
Caption: also located in the setup we can see
Caption: that right now I've got dead PI and it's
Caption: on the same shared network which is a
Caption: challenge when you're on mobile and if I
Caption: double click I can do to change settings
Caption: here quite actually open the device in
Caption: the browser what's really going to lie
Caption: at 10 I of T 10 core Windows IOT temple
Caption: is the fact that you can run any uwp
Caption: application on it so give a visual
Caption: studio and you install the Windows 10
Caption: SDKs you just open up a new universal
Caption: Windows platform project and you can
Caption: deploy deploy that project straight to
Caption: your device obviously you may want some
Caption: UI just fine because it's got aged in
Caption: mind or if you're talking to other
Caption: devices you can just have it talk to the
Caption: devices but it's that simple Visual
Caption: Studio SDK and you can connect now there
Caption: is a great sample tutorial on the
Caption: Microsoft website which talks about
Caption: again I'll post these links but it talks
Caption: about how to code to see our project
Caption: step you through everything you need to
Caption: do have suckers down on how to do the
Caption: deployment and debugging so it's a great
Caption: resource stop it very simple to get used
Caption: to get up speed with
Caption: what you'll notice here that's in work
Caption: good is inside this dashboard we've got
Caption: access to the device itself so now once
Caption: it's booted I'm happy and come through I
Caption: can look at what apps are installed I
Caption: can install new apps I can traverse the
Caption: file explorer I look at the processes I
Caption: can see how it's performing and you can
Caption: see this is in real time this is the
Caption: blue little device here but I get that
Caption: the screen is blank you can see how the
Caption: RAM is performing everything down to
Caption: controls on what Bluetooth audio is set
Caption: up on there you can run the Windows
Caption: updates we're warning it does take a
Caption: long time or when does tend to update if
Caption: you thought it was hard with a laptop so
Caption: here is in our heart the other day for
Caption: the latest update so it downloads it and
Caption: then you just sit watching the little
Caption: cogs go around now now so we have
Caption: something else to do you can also access
Caption: it with an IEP so once again once a
Caption: device or range of devices of booted it
Caption: makes it really really easy to work with
Caption: Safari wants to access things now now
Caption: now ok so here at quick show of hands to
Caption: shop developers or Microsoft stack
Caption: versus Linux other ok so it's really
Caption: balanced and you want to get em C sharp
Caption: our visual studio that's great if you're
Caption: more of a Linux guy depends again what
Caption: you want to do I love the fact that this
Caption: little $50.00 computer I can see it with
Caption: and I can actually use something built
Caption: II's in here so there's blue Java green
Caption: foot there's piping ideas all part of
Caption: that this stroke
Caption: I just get set and write code if I want
Caption: that's cool if I'm talking about doing
Caption: some real apps on the actual running the
Caption: next but as far as IOT one of my
Caption: favorite products for working with IOT
Caption: has got to be mad no dread now what I'm
Caption: going to try to here and this could go
Caption: terribly wrong is swap this to that
Caption: screen so just bear with me a sec try
Caption: not to kill the robot in the meantime
Caption: spend whether this adapters size a good
Caption: size
Caption: everybody is the backside now I don't do
Caption: it probably not on occasion okay I'll
Caption: talk you through no read and I'll hold
Caption: the screen up so you can see it just
Caption: important won't be on the projector so
Caption: no no red is a graphical interface for
Caption: controlling IOT devices it's going to be
Caption: one of the simplest ways to get your
Caption: head around talking to external
Caption: components because sometimes it's
Caption: developed but they're going to be cool
Caption: to you know make the motor moves to run
Caption: a test from a sensor to do something
Caption: else but we're not really interested in
Caption: getting to all of the down and dirty
Caption: bits of electronics so the new grade
Caption: you've got a group of inputs on this
Caption: left-hand side here it's built on top of
Caption: a node.js server so nice and is it's
Caption: deployed and you basically just drag the
Caption: nodes that you want onto the page okay
Caption: so nice and so forth you've got inputs
Caption: and outputs that's what it's all about
Caption: here what I've done is set up a Twitter
Caption: input feed I said to it there's anything
Caption: to do with EDD curve so it's connected
Caption: to my Twitter account public tweets if
Caption: it has a DVD Perth in it I want to know
Caption: about it now the moment all of running
Caption: is the debug window but can somebody
Caption: just trash them and somebody send a
Caption: tweet to vdd put this is where 500
Caption: people started so what we should see in
Caption: real time
Caption: we will the Twitter API interesting we
Caption: won't feed everything into it but there
Caption: we go testing at VX Australia nice from
Caption: LA so there you go it's taking from that
Caption: note server it's reading those Twitter's
Caption: of those tweets and then it's allowing
Caption: to do something with it now doing
Caption: something with it I could we looked a
Caption: drag hook up a MongoDB zero code just
Caption: configure my settings and then say store
Caption: those tweets I could say if somebody
Caption: tweet is raining in Brisbane that I
Caption: wanted to close my windows or Julian
Caption: bring the other venting blinds down
Caption: whatever it's such a powerful interface
Caption: when it comes to designing IOT and
Caption: connected to connected devices and
Caption: different things you want to go with it
Caption: so and all the different platforms of
Caption: play with this is by far the quickest to
Caption: get things up and running
Caption: what about deploying or setting up your
Caption: apply for the first time well if we go
Caption: that quickly to Windows and the Windows
Caption: software the IOT dashboard you get your
Caption: own if I do ever wins this you do this
Caption: with this flash jxp card have a crack
Caption: setting up a new device is simply a
Caption: matter of picking what IMT board you
Caption: want to work with so with this nifc
Caption: supports the mainboard raspberry pi 2 &
Caption: 3 and the dragon board at the moment
Caption: what was nice is the latest version
Caption: actually gave us Wi-Fi support because
Caption: that was a bit of a pain the device has
Caption: Wi-Fi but with attempted support it UPI
Caption: have the build you want and if you're a
Caption: member of the insider preview you can
Caption: get the latest version of that and then
Caption: you simply pick which device you want so
Caption: in the Mac here I've got an SD card
Caption: plug in the side it says okay we've got
Caption: one give it a name
Caption: give it a napkin password secret
Caption: squirrel and except unfortunately it
Caption: doesn't matter how many times you've
Caption: already downloaded it goes off to the
Caption: Internet and that like 600 Meg file and
Caption: then flashes a drive and we'll set it up
Caption: as soon as that has been set up
Caption: it then shows that things like here
Caption: which is really cool so boots and where
Caption: we go there's some great samples
Caption: actually again on the Microsoft site
Caption: hooking up apply to control 3d printer
Caption: telling your PI into internet radio that
Caption: could be the commandment consumed by
Caption: anybody in the in that range or how to
Caption: use some basic scratch cell block in
Caption: programming languages if I was setting
Caption: up a pipe or the Linux version simple
Caption: matter of downloading news and news is
Caption: new out of box software Luthor and that
Caption: will again take care of flashing the
Caption: drive and give you the destroys you want
Caption: to include so the media ones the the
Caption: different versions of Linux that are
Caption: available I'm just going to quickly boot
Caption: before take questions and this won't
Caption: have to show you what happens if you're
Caption: running multiple distros get a pretty
Caption: patently anytime Linux boots you get the
Caption: options and then here we can see about
Caption: res Marion I've got openelec which is a
Caption: coder link tame incentive distribution
Caption: another media center and there's I
Caption: attend court Steven on that little 32
Caption: key card there's plenty of options to
Caption: play with it I'm being told from the
Caption: battle we're running short on time so
Caption: let's have some questions and hopefully
Caption: there's been enough interest peeps in
Caption: our short time together to make you want
Caption: to go from at least win one they
Caption: occupied or come back and do some more
Caption: stuff with questions it is this very
Caption: slow
Caption: have you done this exciting is like
Caption: Beauty Zelda and so timely donations
Caption: makes my door locks are all up
Caption: IOT so I can unlock doors can see the
Caption: status of my doors I've got my immediate
Caption: Center have set up with Raspberry Pi and
Caption: I love playing with some the other
Caption: winners as well so I've got raspberry pi
Caption: and folding to my the winner stuff and
Caption: the wouldn't ever water test up for my
Caption: total max so I've got a sensor which how
Caption: to monitor water level water temperature
Caption: and so I get notifications flyout if I
Caption: have an application how to say hey you
Caption: need to hear the pump set up on the tank
Caption: or the water levels lower the heat is
Caption: off pist orders to call all of my
Caption: Turtles and there's I'm particularly
Caption: lovable of nationally even the door
Caption: locking so on my phone I can say hey
Caption: Siri I'm not my friend or as I'm driving
Caption: up the driveway and it should be nice
Caption: shall be left otherwise I thought apps
Caption: etc I can do this don't don't let your
Caption: thinking limit what can be done and not
Caption: have it is a sprinkler system I know
Caption: guys that put sensors on fans or air
Caption: conditioning units to make sure that the
Caption: band hasn't sort of slowed down fire
Caption: alarms just stop thinking think big
Caption: picture what what is it that you do
Caption: every day that could be automated
Caption: jumping King and Sydney has a might be
Caption: Justin somebody else that has its other
Caption: GPS sensor on a device on his bike that
Caption: is getting toward his house the garage
Caption: door goes up so that he doesn't even
Caption: have you know because pressing a button
Caption: takes you on there so if he's driving
Caption: towards his house aerosol this up so
Caption: what's the different ideas on a big like
Caption: with the especially with no bread it is
Caption: so easy to set us up up and talk to push
Caption: push stuff out in your web pages file it
Caption: inside like so much power
Caption: stuff you're at it you ever worry about
Caption: its security if I was to stand and worry
Caption: about all the different security aspects
Caption: I probably say metal dick I mean every
Caption: eye monitor every now we have a cent
Caption: Facebook is owned by the CIA like yeah
Caption: so we can get an in there are security
Caption: concerns but just this week there's a
Caption: zero debug ribbon with iOS machines with
Caption: jailbroken with one click so it's being
Caption: be sensible with it for me if somebody
Caption: tries to break into my house I'm in and
Caption: out does that mean that somebody can
Caption: hack my life or they can bust a window
Caption: anyway like really I want to get in
Caption: they're going to get inside I just a lot
Caption: of time on outside it's cool when people
Caption: come over you go down their screen comes
Caption: down projector comes up that sort of
Caption: thing and it's cheap it used to be you
Caption: spend a lot of money with high-end
Caption: technology like the AMX gear and things
Caption: like that
Caption: now you to do it with a fifty dollar
Caption: computer one question material energy in
Caption: oh we're out of time and I'm at
Caption: Microsoft proprietary app Apple I'm
Caption: doing iOS stuff but I do prefer now the
Caption: IOT peyote can court and with that for
Caption: this stuff playing around just sitting
Caption: under lounge doing cool ship then Russ
Caption: Aryan is like voice of choices okay
Caption: hopefully you can all take something
Caption: away from that and thank you very much
Caption: and of course some useful links which
Caption: I'll make the verbal I would leave the
Caption: pie shop is a great place to buy a lot
Caption: of stuff briefer base that they ship all
Caption: over the country my contact details one
Caption: sweet slow feedback so ever gets filling
Caption: your feedback forms going for all the
Caption: other things and of course thank you to
Caption: the sponsors